---
layout: post
title:  "verse16"
categories: doc, story
---

one evening in February 2020 my friends and i were buying drinks for the night, discussing possible use cases for ai. 
one of us came up with the idea to develop an ai-rapper. we expanded on the concept and when we arrived at my apartment, 
we dreamed of a full blown digital identity, developed and maintained by us, performing self-written rap songs. 
this is the idea which sparked **verse16**. over 6 months later i published my first package to pypi.

our first thoughts revolved around creating a kind of public figure with an online presence, a face and an animated
3d model performing rap songs, which it has written itself. we thought about an artificial artist who only publishes 
computer generated, but always original content. with an artificial voice, face and "life". the next day i got to work
and over the next couple of months, i developed multiple prototypes for this artificial artist, which culminated in the
creation of verse16. 
 
we tried https://www.song-lyrics-generator.org.uk/rap/ but it got old very quickly
the next day i came across [this towardsdatascience article](https://towardsdatascience.com/arctic-monkeys-lyrics-generator-with-data-augmentation-b9b1f7989db0)
then the article 
lead me on another path...
 
first the idea was x then it shifted to y. after realizing i bit off too much i  just reduced the complexity and 
features, made another iteration / revision / prototype and boom it works nicely, was in my skill set and i have a 
published package now, yay!

list all planned functions with demonstration of where in development this is... maybe someone has some ideas (like for the voice)



this started a journey.... this journey culminated in a bachelor thesis on natural language processing 



inspired by medium or datascience article of gpt-2-simple or generate with artic monkeys etc.

