---
layout: post
title:  "thoughts on decentralization"
categories: 💡
permalink: onair-p2p
---

*development in progress...*

**why decentralize?**
[n-o-d-e video on decentralization](https://youtu.be/SrA7XTDCtok)
todo: embed this video and other resources

electron application with one of the following framworks: hypercore / dat / ipfs / libp2p 
onair - cryptocurrency based p2p
- data and traffic in categories
  - chat (starting maybe only otr)
  - media (content delivery)
- you get crypto for storing and serving data
- you pay crypto for requesting data and using cloud storage
- nodes passively mine crypto up to a certain cap


## onair-p2p manifest



tldr: vertex-p2p will probably become a really secure meshnet with open source hardware.
like encrochat in distributed and good

there are many problems with the modern ecosystem
of widely used commercial applications. a few of these
problems are (some taken from [this n-o-d-e video](https://youtu.be/SrA7XTDCtok)):
- the collection and analysis of personal data
- the huge power centralized companies have over users
    - questionable algorithms
    - censorship
    - shadow-banning
    - arbitrary moderation
    - data-mining and big data analysis
    - etc...

many of the problems with modern technologies can or could be solved
with decentralization. still, there arent many widely used commercial
decentralized applications.

Quotes taken from [NODE VOL2 ZINE](https://n-o-d-e.live/zine/NODE_VOL_02.pdf),
on why P2P systems aren't more widely used
> “They need to have **better UX and better
features than the centralised
alternatives**. It's way too easy to drown
in the details and complexities of
decentralisation at the expense of UX.
Riot has suffered from this a lot, but we
are now determined to fix it at any cost.
On the plus side, a well-designed open
decentralised ecosystem (e.g. the web)
should always be able to beat a silo on
features via the size and vibrancy of its
community.” - *Matthew Hodgson, Matrix Co-Founder*  

> “For decentralization technologies to
achieve broad adoption, it’s critical that
they **deliver an experience that is as
good as—or better than—the solutions
they aim to replace**. Traditional users
generally won’t care about
decentralization if it comes at the
expense of performance, cost, reliability,
user experience, or the myriad of other
considerations in the buying process.
Decentralized solutions need to surprise
and delight the user. **When they can
achieve lower cost, higher performance,
and better reliability, then you will see
P2P technologies take off**.” - *Shawn Wilkinson, Storj Founder*

there are many really good frameworks and projects to build a
decentralized application on. these include
- ipfs
- dat project
- hyperleger sovrin
- cryptocurrencies (etherium, monero, etc...)
- implementations of dht like pastry

the focus of this project is to build a
- **peer-to-peer**
- **fun and easy to use**
- **beautiful**
-  permissive (see sovrin)
- **overlay network over the internet**
    - (find (more) specific use case like
(chat, social network, open collaboration plattform, etc...))
- that **enables access to vertex-p2p network**
- with an **app or in-browser-application**
- that **works on mobile and desktop**
- with **generation of crypto to pay nodes to route your traffic**

- problem: some have been solved: eg: chat: signal
- where can this fit in
- maybe implement p2p version of signal protocol or sth
- (optional) device / node / p2p server that plugs into wlan router and power outlet and
tunnels requests to p2p network

- focus is:
- ux
- making it hard to make mistakes. the problem with computer security is not with the techical aspects but the human ones.

## references and resources
- [n-o-d-e](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCvrLvII5oxSWEMEkszrxXEA)
